# System

## Dice

The base dice used for the system is the *d10*, or a 10-sided dice. A percentile roll, the *d100*, may be made by using 2d10, treating the first roll as the value of the tenth digit, and the second roll as the value of the ones digit. A 10 rolled for the tenth digit represents a 0, unless both are rolled 10, in which case they collectively form a 100.

## Characteristic scores

**Characteristic scores** are key to a character's basic construction. They are an abstraction of a character's basic abilities and characteristics, of everything from their physical to mental attributes, to weapon skills.

The following characteristics exist.

### Melee weapon strength

*Abbreviated as MWS.*

**Melee weapon strength** represents a character's familiarity and proficiency in utilising melee weapons.

All melee weapons that are not classified as *Unarmed Melee* or *Brute Melee* utilise MWS rolls.

### Ranged weapon strength

*Abbreviated as RWS.*

**Ranged weapon strength** represents a character's familiarity and proficiency in utilising ranged weapons.

All ranged weapons that are not classified as *Unarmed Melee* utilise RWS rolls.

### Strength

*Abbreviated as STR.*

**Strength** is a character's basic ability to achieve physical feats. These are mostly those that involve feats of strength, such as lifting, or carrying items, but also include acts such as climbing, and jumping.

*Unarmed Melee*, and *Brute Melee* weapons also utilise STR rolls.

### Agility

*Abbreviated as AGL.*

**Agility** represents a character's dexterity, physical flexibility, and nimbleness. A character's initiative is also determined by AGL.

*Unarmed Ranged* weapons also utilise AGL rolls.

### Toughness

*Abbreviated as TGH.*

**Toughness** represents a character's physical resilience and natural defence capabilities. This covers a wide range of different situations, from resisting status effects such as poison, to retaining consciousness after sustaining damage, to surviving when potentially lethal damage is taken.

### Mind

*Abbreviated as MND.*

**Mind** is a abstraction of mental processes and abilities. It covers a character's intelligence, their ability to process and retain information, and their mental capacity and willpower. MND is also used when resisting mental status effects, and to resist damage to memory or mental functions.

### Charisma

*Abbreviated as CHA.*

**Charisma** is a character's ability to charm and coerce. This may be derived from an innate ability to manipulate others, but may involve other characteristics, including a character's physical attractiveness, and a character's ability to speak publicly.

### Perception

*Abbreviated as PER.*

**Perception** is a character's ability to notice and perceive their surroundings. This include complex uses of senses, the ability to detect small details, and the ability to passively, and actively detect other characters' actions.

## Checks

### Basic & characteristic checks

**Basic checks** are all made in a similar fashion. In order to make a check, first determine a the check's difficulty. A basic, challenging difficulty check is equal to the character's relevant characteristic point. This is also known as a **characteristic check**.

Characteristic checks are also made in other situations, such as when resisting status effects, taking special actions in combat, and most other circumstances when skills do not apply. Making these checks is the same as making a basic check.

*Check difficulties for basic and trained skill checks and their corresponding modifiers. Please note modifiers in general are applied to the difficulty of the check, not the roll.*

Difficulty        | Modifier   |
----------------- | -----------|
Trivial           | +40        |
Simple            | +30        |
Routine           | +20        |
Standard          | +10	       |
Challenging       | 0          |
Hard              | -10        |
Very Hard         | -20        |
Painstaking 	  | -30        |
Impossible        | -40        |

After a difficulty has been determined, roll a d100 and compare the roll to the difficulty. If the roll is lower than the difficulty, the check succeeds.

### Skill checks

**Skill checks** are made when a character utilises a known skill. Making a skill check is the same as making a basic check, though the player may choose which characteristic they wish to invoke. The results and means through which an action is taken as a result may be affected by the characteristic utilised.

### Untrained skill checks

**Untrained skill checks** are made when a character does not possess a skill, but wishes to make a check untrained. In these circumstances, the rules are the same for making a trained skill check, but all modifies receive an additional -10.

*Check difficulties for untrained skill checks.*

Difficulty        | Modifier   |
----------------- | -----------|
Trivial           | +30        |
Simple            | +20        |
Routine           | +10        |
Standard          | 0	       |
Challenging       | -10        |
Hard              | -20        |
Very Hard         | -30        |
Painstaking       | -40        |
Impossible        | -50        |

### Opposing checks

**Opposing checks** are made when a character uses a skill or characteristic against another character. In these situations, a basic check is made for both characters with the applicable modifiers. The character closest to success, or with the greatest success, succeeds the check.

In an opposing check, it is impossible for both parties to fail or succeed.

## Skills

A list of skills in the basic system.

- Acrobatics
- Animal Handling
- Appraise
- Arcana
- Artificing
- Athletics
- Barter
- Bluff
- Bureaucracy
- Business
- Calligraphy
- Charm
- Climb
- Contortion
- Courting
- Crafting
- Culture
- Deception
- Deduce Motive
- Detect Trap
- Diplomacy
- Disable Device
- Disguise
- Drawing
- Ecology
- Engineering
- Escape
- Etiquette
- Forgery
- Geography
- History
- Insight
- Instruction
- Intimidation
- Investigation
- Leadership
- Linguistics
- Lip Reading
- Logic
- Martial Arts
- Medicine
- Nature
- Navigation
- Painting
- Penmanship
- Performance
- Persuasion
- Philosophy
- Politics
- Psychology
- Religion
- Ride
- Sail
- Sleight of Hand
- Smithing
- Stealth
- Strategy
- Surgery
- Survival
- Swim
- Tracking

### Skill progression

Skills have levels that go from 1-10. Each level above 1 provides an additional +5 to checks against that skill. A basic training in a skill provides a level 1 skill. In order to progress levels, upgrade points (UP) may be spent.

1 UP should cost 1000 EXP.

*Number of UP needed to progress from each level*

Level             | Cost (UP)  |
----------------- | -----------|
1                 | 2          |
2                 | 4          |
3                 | 6          |
4                 | 12	       |
5                 | 20         |
6                 | 32         |
7                 | 42         |
8                 | 84         |
9                 | 136        |