# System

## Game Master

The person in charge of the game is known as the Game Master. This system document assumes you are familiar to traditional tabletop Role-playing games.

It must be stressed that the Game Master's word is final and absolute. They are the person in charge of the game, and whatever they say counts from a rules perspective. There will be parts of the game when a Game Master's judgement is necessary.

## System guidelines and functions

The system has a broad set of general rules-of-thumb to follow. All the following rules should be taken as a guideline, and the Game Master's word may override them.

1. Specific rules take precedence over general rules. If there are contractions, a specific rule should be used over a general one.

2. When rounding is necessary, round downwards.

## Dice

The base dice used for the system is the *d10*, or a 10-sided dice. A percentile roll, the *d100*, may be made by using 2d10, treating the first roll as the value of the tenth digit, and the second roll as the value of the ones digit.

## Characteristic scores

Characteristic scores are key to a character's basic construction. They are an abstraction of a character's basic abilities and characteristics, of everything from their physical to mental attributes, to weapon skills.

The following characteristic scores exist.

### Strength

*Abbreviated as STR.*

**Strength** is a character's basic ability to achieve physical feats. These are mostly those that involve feats of strength, such as lifting, or carrying items, but also include acts such as climbing, and jumping.

Unarmed melee, and brute melee weapons utilise STR rolls.

### Melee Weapon Strength

*Abbreviated as MWS.*

**Melee weapon strength** represents a character's familiarity, and proficiency in utilising complex melee weapons.

All non-unarmed, and brute melee weapons utilise MWS rolls.

### Agility

*Abbreviated as AGL.*

**Agility** represents a character's dexterity, physical flexibility, and nimbleness. A character's initiative is also determined by AGL.

Unarmed ranged weapons utilise AGL rolls.

### Ranged Weapon Strength

*Abbreviated as RWS.*

**Ranged weapon strength** represents a character's familiarity, and proficiency in utilising complex ranged weapons.

All non-unarmed ranged weapons utilise RWS rolls.

### Toughness

*Abbreviated as TGH.*

**Toughness** represents a character's physical resilience and natural defence capabilities. This covers a wide range of different situations, from resisting status effects such as poison, to retaining consciousness after sustaining damage, to surviving when potentially lethal damage is taken.

### Mind

*Abbreviated as MND.*

**Mind** is a abstraction of mental processes and abilities. It covers a character's intelligence, their ability to process and retain information, and their mental capacity and willpower. MND is also used when resisting mental status effects, and to resist damage to memory or mental functions.

### Charisma

*Abbreviated as CHA.*

**Charisma** is a character's ability to charm and coerce. This may be derived from an innate ability to manipulate, but may involve other characteristics, including a character's physical attractiveness, and a character's ability to speak.

### Perception

*Abbreviated as PER.*

**Perception** is a character's ability to notice and perceive their surroundings. This include complex uses of senses, the ability to detect small details, and the ability to passively, and actively detect other characters' actions.

## Degrees of Success and Failure

A single degree of success is counted for every ten a d100 roll beats a base difficulty. For example, if a check difficulty was 50, and the d100 roll was 30, we would say that roll had 2 degrees of success.

The degree of failure is similar, but counts every ten a d100 roll is above a base difficulty. If a check difficulty was 50, and the d100 roll was 72, we would say that roll had 2 degrees of failure.

## Checks

Checks are split into two major types.

### Basic Checks

All basic checks are made in a similar fashion. In order to make a check, first determine a the check's difficulty. A basic, challenging difficulty check is equal to the character's relevant characteristic point.

The following chart may be used to help determine the difficulty of checks. Please note modifiers are applied to the difficulty of the check, not the roll.

Difficulty        | Modifier   |
----------------- | -----------|
Trivial           | +40        |
Simple            | +30        |
Routine           | +20        |
Standard          | +10	       |
Challenging       | 0          |
Hard              | -10        |
Very Hard         | -20        |
Painstaking 	  | -30        |
Impossible        | -40        |

After a difficulty has been determined, roll a d100 and compare the roll to the difficulty. If the roll is lower than the difficulty, the check succeeds.

### Skill Checks

**Skill checks** are made when a character utilises a known skill. Making a skill check is the same as making a basic check.

### Characteristic Checks

**Characteristic checks** are made using the base characteristic of a character. The mechanics for characteristic checks vary depending on the situation.

#### Untrained skill checks

Untrained skill checks are made when a character does not possess a skill, but wishes to make a check untrained. In these circumstances, the rules are the same for making a trained skill check, but all modifies receive an additional -10.

Difficulty        | Modifier   |
----------------- | -----------|
Trivial           | +30        |
Simple            | +20        |
Routine           | +10        |
Standard          | 0	       |
Challenging       | -10        |
Hard              | -20        |
Very Hard         | -30        |
Painstaking       | -40        |
Impossible        | -50        |

#### Other Characteristic Checks

Characteristic checks are also made in other situations, such as when resisting status effects, rolling in combat, and most other circumstances when skills do not apply. Making these checks is the same as making a basic check.

### Opposing Checks

An opposing check is made when a character uses a skill or characteristic against another character. In these situations, a basic check is made for both characters with the applicable modifiers. The character with the least degrees of failure, or the most degrees of success wins.

In an opposing check, it is impossible for both parties to fail, or succeed.