# Races

The description of races are typically not crucial to gameplay. Races are mostly for role-play and worldbuilding purposes, and may be omitted entirely for certain settings. The core system includes three generic races.

## Race Generalisation

### Characteristics Score Increase

A race may provide a basic increase to characteristic scores. This is typically in the form of a base increase, (+5, etc.) or as a random dice-based increase (1d10, etc.)

### Age

The age range of a race indicate the ages during which a member of a race is typically considered an adult. This can vary between societies of races, and can be waved by the Game Master depending on the situation. A player may choose to play an exceptionally young, or old character, and in those situations, it is the responsibility of the Game Master to either deny the choice, or balance the character in respect to the player's choices.

Age is not key to any core game mechanics.

### Speed

The base speed for humanoid creatures is 10m. Other forms of creatures, and potentially races, may have different speeds.

### Skill Training

The race will typically provide training in skills.

## Fégée

**Characteristics Score Increase:** Gain +15 to CHA and MND or +5 to any three characteristics scores.

**Age:** Fégée typically mature at around 16 - 19 years old, and live for up to a century and a half.

**Fée wisdom:** Gain training in any four MND or CHA skills.

## Goule

**Characteristics Score Increase:** Gain +20 to TGH and +10 to STR, MWS, or RWS, or +5 to any three characteristics scores.

**Age:** Goule typically mature at around 18 - 22 years old, and live for up to a century.

**Labour is power:** Gain training in any four STR, MWS, or RWS skills.

## Human

**Characteristics Score Increase:** Gain +20 to any characteristic or +2 to all characteristics.

**Age:** Humans typically mature at around 16 - 19 years old, and live for less than a century.

**Jack of all trades:** Gain training in any two skills.
