# Magic

The core ideas of magic operate on a single system. Magic spells are a combination of a technique, an aspect, and a form.

## Techniques

- Commanding
- Conjuring
- Illusion*
- Infusion
- Invocation
- Knowledge*
- Mimic*
- Mutation*
- Protection

Techniques marked with an asterisk (*) do not need to invoke an aspect.

## Aspects

- Acid
- Air
- Arcane
- Body
- Celestial
- Chaos
- Dark
- Death
- Earth
- Egg
- Electricity
- Fire
- Force
- Ghost
- Glass
- Gravity
- Ice
- Life
- Light
- Metal
- Mind
- Nature
- Order
- Poison
- Sand
- Sleep
- Stone
- Time
- Vision
- Water
- Wood

## Forms

- Arc
- Aura
- Beam
- Being
- Burst
- Dispel
- Entomb
- Object
- Projectile
- Pure
- Self

## Fluid Magic System

The fluid magic system is dependent on a dynamic system of difficulty and exhaustion.

Scale                | Difficulty |
-------------------- | ---------- |
Inconsequential      | 0          |
Minor                | 10         |
Normal               | 15         |
Somewhat significant | 30         |
Significant          | 60         |
Grand                | 90         |
Immense              | 120        |
Universal            | 200        |

Technique            | Difficulty |
-------------------- | ---------- |
Mutation             | 10         |
Invocation           | 10         |
Conjuring            | 20         |
Illusion             | 20         |
Mimic                | 20         |
Commanding           | 30         |
Protection           | 30         |
Infusion             | 30         |
Knowledge            | 30         |

Level                | Modifier   |
-------------------- | ---------- |
Level 1              | +10        |
Level 2              | +10        |
Level 3              | +20        |
Level 4              | 0          |
Level 5              | 0          |
Level 6              | 0          |
Level 7              | 0          |
Level 8              | 0          |
Level 9              | 0          |
Level 10             | 0          |
Level 11             | 0          |
Level 12             | -10        |
Level 13             | -20        |
Level 14             | -30        |
Level 15             | -40        |
Level 16             | -50        |
Level 17             | -60        |
Level 18             | -70        |
Level 19             | -85        |
Level 20             | -95        |

Level modifiers apply to both exhaustion and difficulty.

In order to calculate difficulty, add the base from the technique and the scale, and any additional modifiers. A successful cast requires a d100 roll that is lower than the total difficulty.

Speciality in a technique allows for a -20 to difficulty.

Exhaustion is equal to the difficulty squared divided by 70 (dif^2 / 70) rounded to the nearest five.

Exhaustion decays at a rate of 10/hour.

## Rigid Magic System

## Differences between systems

There are two types of magic systems.

The core difference is that rigid spells allocate magical energy beforehand, whereas fluid modify magical energy in real time. This is particularly pertinent in situations when those who use the fluid system (Channellers) use rigid (Magician) spells.
